{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1796262464\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid1118105062
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid-1257969520\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid-646176624\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid890690686\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid614339116\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid-556616776\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid1973328494\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid-2080584774\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}{\list\listtemplateid-1632466874\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}
\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}{\list\listtemplateid-1\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}}{\listname ;}\listid-2}
{\list\listtemplateid-1952828534\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat12\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'03\'00. ;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\b\i0\f0\fs28\ulnone\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }{\listname ;}\listid77483621}
{\list\listtemplateid1252026010\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat9\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'03\'00. ;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\b\i0\f0\fs28\ulnone\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }{\listname ;}\listid486091322}
{\list\listtemplateid-419235276\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'050.\'00. ;}{\levelnumbers\'03;}\b0\i0\f0\fs20\ulnone\fbias0 \fi-360\li2520 }{\listname ;}\listid932394260}
{\list\listtemplateid1637615686\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'03\'00. ;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\b\i0\f0\fs28\ulnone\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }{\listname ;}\listid1128280648}
{\list\listtemplateid1637615686\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'03\'00. ;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\b\i0\f0\fs28\ulnone\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }{\listname ;}\listid1800877874}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\u-3986 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}
\b0\i0\f14\fs20\ulnone\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080 }}\ls1}{\listoverride\listid932394260\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid486091322\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid1128280648\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid1800877874
\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid77483621\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-127
\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid-128\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls14}{\listoverride\listid-131
\listoverridecount0\ls15}{\listoverride\listid-132\listoverridecount0\ls16}}{\info{\title Unreal Creature Care and Feeding Guide}{\author Steven Polge}{\operator Steven Polge}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy18\hr17\min53}{\revtim\yr1998\mo5\dy6\hr15\min31}
{\printim\yr1998\mo1\dy13\hr18\min13}{\version8}{\edmins130}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords4885}{\nofchars27846}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright 
\b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {\fs36 Unreal Creature Care and Feeding Guide
\par }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\i AI and physics notes}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {Steven Polge 5/5/98
\par 
\par NEW FEATURES SINCE LAST UPDATE:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
BiterFishSchools have a fishcolor attribute.  0 to 6 makes all the fish in the school the same color, while a value larger than 6 gives them a random mix of colors.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
Decorations, including carcasses, trigger their event when destroyed.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
The Jumper trigger has a JumpZ variable which specifies how high the triggered creature should jump (giving you control over where it lands).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {The FearSpot keypoint
 has a bInitiallyActive attribute, which can be turned on and off by triggering it.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
When a player enters a TeleporterZone, he is teleported by the associated teleporter (specified by the TeleporterZone\rquote s TeleporterTag).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
SetDesiredFOV f sets your field of view to f (a value between 1 and 179).
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
For all the human corpses in your maps, be sure you used MaleBody,\line MaleBodyTwo, MaleBodyThree, FemaleBody and Female2Body. Very recently (for\line network performance) I added some new subclasses - MaleOneCarcass,\line MaleTwoC
arcass, MaleThreeCarcass, FemaleOneCarcass, and FemaleTwoCarcass.\line These use the regular meshes, and therefore take up a lot of memory (plus\line they don't have the extra poses). Check your maps, and make sure you\line haven't put any of these in.

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {Added a new attri
bute to the Nali, bNeverBow.  This should only be used with Nali who have a homebase (and only in well tested situations).  When enabled, the Nali will not stop and bow while retreating.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {
The damagetype for SpecialEvent triggers and pain zones has changed (to allow translation).  To provide your own message, set the damage type to special, and type the message in the damagestring (the death message will read \ldblquote Player was xxx
\rdblquote , where you fill in the xxx). 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 1. AI Attributes}{
\par 
\par Typically, you will use the default values for the parameters below, with the following exceptions:
\par }{\i Tag, Orders, Ordertag,TeamTag, bTeamLeader, AlarmTag  }{and sometimes}{\i  Aggressiveness. AttitudeToPlayer, }{and}{\i  Combatstyle}{. 
\par 
\par }{\b Actor attributes menu:
\par }{OddsOfAppearing\tab Likelihood that creature (or other actor) will appear in relevant game modes.
\par \tab \tab \tab Range is 0.0=Never to 1.0=Always (default is 1.0).
\par 
\par }{\b Pawn attributes menu:
\par 
\par Display attributes menu:
\par }{DrawScale:\tab \tab If the drawscale of a creature is changed from its default value, its collision box
\par \tab \tab \tab (collisionheight and collisionradius) and health will be scaled by the new value
\par \tab \tab \tab at the start of gameplay.
\par }{\b 
\par Movement attributes menu}{:
\par JumpZ:\tab \tab \tab How far a pawn can jump.  If you don\rquote t want a pawn to jump that can normally
\par \tab \tab \tab jump (for example, you want to keep a specific Skaarj up on a ledge), set its 
\par \tab \tab \tab JumpZ to -1.
\par 
\par }{\b AI attributes menu}{:
\par bHasRangedAttack:  \tab specifies whether creature can attack from beyond melee range.  
\par bMovingRangedAttack:\tab specifies whether creature can use his ranged attack while moving (assuming \tab \tab \tab \tab creature supports this mode).
\par bCanStrafe:\tab \tab Specifies whether creature can strafe.
\par bFixedStart:\tab \tab If true, creature always starts from where it was placed.  If false, then may start \tab \tab \tab \tab from alternate position depending on its orders (see below).
\par bQuiet:\tab \tab \tab If true, makes less noise when wandering around
\par bTeamLeader:\tab \tab Leader of his team (as defined by the TeamTag).  There should be only one per
\par \tab \tab \tab team.
\par bIgnoreFriends:  \tab \tab Default false.  If true, creature doesn\rquote t react to friend's noises.
\par bDelayedPatrol:\tab \tab If true, and creature\rquote s orders are Patroling, then the creature will begin his
\par \tab \tab \tab patrol only when it is triggered.  However, it will break off this patrol and react
\par \tab \tab \tab to the player if it sees him.  To force the creature to continue to his destination, 
\par \tab \tab \tab you can also specify the patrol destination in the creature\rquote s alarmtag.
\par bHateWhenTriggered:\tab Creature will change its attitude to hate the player when triggered by the player.
\par TeamTag:\tab \tab Creature team to which this creature belongs.  As long as the team leader is
\par \tab \tab \tab alive, creatures on the same team will coordinate with each other..  If the 
\par \tab \tab \tab species can speak, then creatures on the team will talk to each other.\tab   
\par Skill:\tab \tab \tab Added skill of this creature.  Default is 0.  For example, if Skill = 1, then the 
\par \tab \tab \tab creature will act like a difficulty 2 creature when the difficulty setting = 1.\tab 
\par SightRadius:\tab \tab Maximum sight distance.  Creature\rquote s likelihood of seeing other pawns depends \tab \tab \tab \tab on how far away the other pawn is relative to the creature\rquote s sight radius. the
\par \tab \tab \tab other pawn\rquote s visibility, and (soon) how well lit the other pawn is.     \tab 
\par PeripheralVision:\tab The cosine of the maximum angle of peripheral vision.  A creature which can 
\par \tab \tab \tab see 90 degrees to each side (180 degrees total) would have PeripheralVision = 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs20\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 0.0. \tab}}\pard \fi-360\li2520\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pndec\pnb0\pni0\pnfs20\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb 0.}{\pntxta . }}\ls2\adjustright {
How far another pawn is into the creature\rquote s peripheral vision affects its 
\par }\pard \li2160\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {chances of seeing it.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {HearingThreshold:\tab Minimum scaled noise loudness which can be heard.  While the exact hearing
\par \tab \tab \tab range depends on the creature\rquote s alertness, a good rule of thumb is that creatures
\par \tab \tab \tab can hear a typical loud noise if there is a line of sight to the noise location, and
\par \tab \tab \tab HearingThreshold < 200 / (distance to the noise in Unreal units).  For example,\tab 
\par \tab \tab \tab a creature with HearingThreshold = 0.4 could typically hear noises if they were
\par \tab \tab \tab no more than 500 units away.  A hearing threshold of  0.2 translates to a max
\par \tab \tab \tab hearing distance of 1000 units.  Creatures can never hear noises which are 
\par \tab \tab \tab more than 2800 units away.
\par Orders:\tab \tab \tab See Orders section below.
\par OrderTag:\tab \tab See Orders section below.
\par TimeBetweenAttacks:\tab Time in seconds between ranged attack barrages (which may include multiple 
\par \tab \tab \tab shots).
\par MeleeRange:\tab \tab Maximum distance from target  (not including collision radius of this 
\par \tab \tab \tab creature or its target) to launch a melee attack.
\par Aggressiveness:\tab \tab Typically in the range 0.0 to 1.0.  Primarily affects attitude changes (more
\par \tab \tab \tab aggressive creatures will continue to fight, even against a stronger player, less
\par \tab \tab \tab aggressive creatures will be more quick to flee).  May also have an effect on
\par \tab \tab \tab tactical combat decisions.  Note that creatures will only run away if they have
\par \tab \tab \tab a home base (except for Nali and cow)
\par Visibility:\tab \tab How visible is this pawn to other creatures (note - does not affect rendering!)
\par \tab \tab \tab 0 = invisible, 128 = normal, 255 = highly visible.
\par AttitudeToPlayer:\tab Initial attitude to player (may change depending on player\rquote s actions, and 
\par }\pard \fi720\li1440\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {creature\rquote s aggressiveness).
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Fear - creature will try to run away
\par \tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Hate - creature will attack player
\par \tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Frenzy - Indiscriminate, berserk attack (no fear, lower accuracy)
\par \tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Threaten - Creature will assume a threatening posture
\par \tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Ignore - Creature will ignore player
\par \tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Friendly - Creature will fight player\rquote s enemies
\par \tab \tab \tab ATTITUDE_Follow - Creature will follow player (not yet implemented).
\par Intelligence:\tab \tab Creature\rquote s intelligence\tab 
\par \tab \tab \tab BRAINS_None - amoeba like - only reacts to immediate stimulus
\par \tab \tab \tab BRAINS_Reptile 
\par \tab \tab \tab BRAINS_Mammal
\par \tab \tab \tab BRAINS_Human
\par ReFireRate:\tab \tab Likelihood of firing again immediately after a ranged attack (values from 0 to 1
\par \tab \tab \tab with higher values indicating a higher probability).
\par CombatStyle:\tab \tab Tactical decision making during combat.  Value between 0.0 and 1.0  Higher\tab \tab \tab \tab means the creature is more likely to charge, try to melee, etc.
\par AlarmTag: \tab \tab If  AlarmTag is set, when the creature sees the player, it will (at all costs) first\tab \tab \tab \tab go to the actor with the same Tag as its AlarmTag.  Friendly creatures will wait
\par }\pard \li2160\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {for the player as they move towards this actor. This 
can be used either to have friendly creatures lead the player to some area or object, or for  unfriendly creatures to try to trigger events or set up initial attack formations.  For example, you could have three Kraal in a room. Two attack you, while the 
o
ther runs for a button which will lock the door behind you and sound an alarm.  Alternatively,  you could have them spread out in formation, seeking cover or advantageous positions when they see you.  AlarmPoints (see below) are designed to provide extens
ive scripting control when used with the AlarmTag.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {SharedAlarmTag:\tab For each group of creatures who have the same string in this field, one of them
\par \tab \tab \tab will choose it to be his alarmtag (overriding any existing alarmtag).  You can
\par \tab \tab \tab use this to provide some randomness in which creature performs some 
\par \tab \tab \tab important action.
\par DropWhenKilled:\tab \tab Creature will drop one of these when it is killed.
\par FirstHatePlayerEvent:\tab Creature will trigger this event the first time he decides to attack the player.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 2. Orders}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright {The follo
wing initial orders can be given to all creatures.  After killing an enemy, they will attempt to continue to execute these orders.  Some orders (patroling, guarding) are associated with other actors in the level.  For these, you should set the creature
\rquote s OrderTag to the tag of the associated actor.
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {\b Waiting}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {The default orders for all creatures.  Creature will wait in place, playing various waiting animations, 
\par until it receives some external stimulus (sight or sound).
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {\b Patroling}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {Patroling creatures will patrol along a set of Patrolpoints (a subclass of NavigationPoint) specified by
\par the level designers.  The creature\rquote s OrderTag should contain the tag of the first Patrolpoint in its 
\par patrol.  When a creature reaches a Patrolpoint, it will pause for the PauseTime specified in the patrol 
\par point, facing in the direction the Patrolpoint is oriented.  While pausing, it will play
\par waiting/patrolstop animations.  If a PatrolAnim is specified, the creature will play that specific
\par animation the number of times specified by NumAnims.  Each time it plays the animation, it will also
\par  play the PatrolSound if one is specified.  Note that the amount of time creatures playing a
\par  PatrolAnim pause depends on how long it takes to play the animation NumAnims times, and not the 
\par pause time.  However, the PauseTime must still be set to a positive number.  It will then continue to
\par  the Patrolpoint specified in the current Patrolpoint\rquote s NextPatrol.  If a creature cannot reach the next
\par  patrol point, it will wait at its current position.   If bFixedStart is false, the creature will start at some
\par random point along his patrol route (not yet implemented).
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {\b Guarding}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {Guarding creatures will guard the actor whose tag equals their OrderTag.  They will remain near, and 
\par try to return the guarded actor after combat.  If their initial attitude is ATTITUDE_Threatening, they 
\par will threaten the player, and try to remain between the player and the guarded object.  If the player
\par touches the object they will attack. 
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f14\fs20\cgrid \loch\af14\dbch\af0\hich\f14 \'6e\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnb0\pni0\pnf14\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb n}}\ls1\adjustright {\b Ambushing}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright {The creature is waiting, but more alert than in the waiting state (and possibly playing different 
\par animations).  If bFixedStart is false and there are Ambushpoints  (a subclass of Navigationpoint)  
\par with the same tag as the creature, the creature may randomly pick one of these as its starting point.
\par The orientation of the Ambushpoint determines the orientation of a creature using it.  Ambushpoints
\par may also be used by creatures that decide to ambush rather than pursue a player.
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs28 3. Swarm AI Pawns
\par 
\par }{Horseflies, biterfish, and blobs all 
use variations of swarm AI.  Do not place individual Horseflies and biterfish in your map.  Rather, place horseflySwarms and biterfishSchools, and specify in their properties how many individual creatures they should contain.  For blobs, add a parentBlob 
and a number of bloblets, and give them all the same tag.
\par }{\b\fs28 
\par 4. PathNode placement
\par 
\par }{You can place pathnodes manually, or you can use PATHS BUILD LOWOPT from the console to get a first pass placement done automatically.  In any case, you must do a PATHS DEFINE from the console to create the connections between pathnodes.  
\par }{\b\fs28 
\par }{To use the navigation system, a creature must first choose the best nearby node to "get on" the network. For performance reasons, creatures limit their search for path nodes to those within an 800 unit radius (see\line 
FSortedPathList::FindVisiblePaths in UnRoute.cpp). This is because the test to determine if a creature can reach a path is very expensive. However, once creatures are "on the network", travelling from pathnode to pathnode, they use 
the reachspec tables in each pathnode to determine reachable nodes.  There is no distance limit for reachspecs, so paths may be defined between two pathnodes which are any arbitrary distance apart. For performance reasons, paths between distant pathnodes 
which have a suitable alternate\line path using intermediate path nodes (with a low added cost) are culled from the path network.\line \line 
I recommend that paths should be less than 700 units apart, so that creatures don't ever start off going in the wrong direction to 
get on the network. In addition, paths on stairs and ramps should be closer together (<350 apart) Given that, you should use the minimum number of paths needed to cover the area for which you want intelligent navigation. Note that all navigation points ar
e equally used as paths, so there is no need to place pathnodes redundantly near patrolpoints, etc..\line \line 
Paths should in general be placed at intersections, making sure that they have the maximum visibility in all potential directions. Paths need a line of sight to each other, clear to the width of the maximum width (2 *\line 
collisionradius) of creatures which will use this path. You should also place paths on ledges, with a line of sight to paths below, so that creatures can intelligently navigate jumping off ledgest. Vertical line of sight has no extent requirement.\line 
\line In UnrealEd, look at the Properties menu in the map view window. There is an option to show the path connections. These are best looked at using the overhead view. Note that a connection between two N
avigation points indicates that at least some creatures can use this path. However larger creatures, or creatures which do not support certain movement modes (e.g. the bCanJump, bCanSwim, etc. attributes of pawns) may not be able to use these paths.\line 

\par }{\fs28 
\par }{\b\fs28 5. Thing Factories and Creature Factories
\par 
\par }{Creature and thing  factories may be triggered by a trigger whose event equals the creature factory\rquote s tag, or will trigger themselves if a player touches it.  Since zone changes can cause an event, you could for examp
le cause a creature factory to start producing razorfish as soon as a player enters the water.  The first creature spawns instantly.  Creature and thing factories use Spawnpoints ( a type of navigation point) as the locations to create actors.  Up to 16 s
p
awnpoints can be associated to a given factory.  Spawnpoints and creature factories are associated by giving them the same tag.  If a Spawnpoint has a tag in its event field, that event will occur when a creature is spawned from that spawnpoint.  By defau
lt, creature factories are covert, which means they will only spawn actors at a spawnpoint no player can see.  A creature from a factory has its event set to the factory\rquote 
s tag (so its death will trigger the factory).  Thing and creature factory properties are:
\par 
\par prototype:\tab \tab The class of actors produced by this factory.
\par maxitems;\tab \tab The maximum number of active actors from this factory at any time.  If it is
\par }\pard \li2160\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {a creature factory, new creatures will only produced either initially, or when a creature dies, to get back up to maxitems until the factory capacity is reached.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {Capacity:\tab \tab The maximum number of actors this factory can ever produce  (-1 = no limit).
\par \tab \tab \tab After reaching this limit, the factory shuts down.
\par AddedCoopCapacity:\tab Extra items to produce if the game type is CoopGame.
\par Interval:\tab \tab \tab The average time interval between spawns.
\par timeDistribution:\tab \tab The distribution of the interval between spawns.  
\par \tab \tab \tab DIST_Constant - constant interval (always equal to Interval).
\par \tab \tab \tab DIST_Uniform - uniform interval (random time between 0 and 2 x interval)
\par \tab \tab \tab DIST_Gaussian - Gaussian distribution, with mean = interval
\par 
\par bOnlyPlayerTriggered:\tab Only a player can trigger this factory (true by default).
\par bCovert:;\tab \tab Only do hidden spawns (true by default for Creature factories, false by default
\par \tab \tab \tab for thing factories).
\par bStoppable:\tab \tab Stops producing when untouched.
\par 
\par Orders:\tab \tab \tab (Creature factory only)  Creatures from this factory will have these orders
\par OrderTag:\tab \tab and ordertag.  By default they will attack the instigator of the factory. 
\par ItemTag:\tab \tab Tag given to items produced by this factory.
\par AlarmTag:\tab \tab (Creature factory only) AlarmTag given to creatures produced by this factory.
\par }{\b\fs28 
\par 6. Navigation Points}{
\par 
\par \tab \tab All navigation points have a bPlayerOnly attribute.  If set to true, it means that only 
\par \tab \tab Players (bots) will use this path for navigation.  Its not perfect, but if you put two in a row \tab \tab along a hallway with turns, it will probably keep the creatures from going through that
\par \tab \tab hall.  Exceptions are if the creature is close behind a player and in hot pursuit, or if he is 
\par \tab \tab already very close to the path when he tries to use navigation.
\par 
\par Homebase:\tab Homebase of creatures whose tag is the same as the Homebase actor.  Creatures who fear
\par \tab \tab the player will flee to their homebase if they have one.  There, they will turn and fight.
\par \tab \tab When a creature reaches its homebase, it will face in the direction specified by the 
\par \tab \tab homebase\rquote s orientation.  Also, it will check for nearby ambushpoints whose tag = the
\par \tab \tab creature\rquote s tag, and if any are found will go to them.
\par 
\par Ambushpoint:\tab See Ambushing orders.
\par 
\par InventorySpot:  \tab Automatically inserted during PATHS DEFINE to identify location of inventory (for    \tab \tab \tab bots.
\par 
\par Teleporters:
\par 
\par PlayerStart:
\par 
\par SpawnPoint: \tab See Thing and Creature factories.
\par 
\par PatrolPoints:\tab See Patroling orders.
\par 
\par LiftCenter:\tab Place this Navigation Point at the spot on a lift you want the creature to stand while using \tab \tab the lift.  Its LiftTag should be set to the tag of the lift it is on.
\par 
\par LiftExit:\tab \tab LiftExits should be place at the spots you want creatures to wait before getting on a lift.  \tab \tab \tab Their LiftTag should be set to the tag of the lift they are associated with.
\par 
\par AlarmPoints:\tab Alarmpoints are designed to be used in conjunction with the alarmtag to cause creatures 
\par \tab \tab to perform complex actions upon seeing a player.  If the Alarmpoint\rquote s event is set, it will
\par \tab \tab trigger all creatures with that tag when the alarm creature reaches the Alarmpoint. The \tab 
\par \tab \tab attributes are:
\par 
\par \tab \tab NextAlarm:  \tab The next alarmpoint to go to after this one.  If none, the creature will
\par }\pard \li2880\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {revert to normal AI after completing the actions specified by this point.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par \tab \tab PauseTime:\tab How long to pause at this alarmpoint.
\par 
\par \tab \tab DuckTime:\tab How long to pause after playing the AlarmAnim (only used if an 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab AlarmAnim is specified).  Its called ducktime, because a typical use
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab would be to have the creature duck, wait for ducktime, and then stand
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab up and shoot (if bAttackWhilePaused is true).  If you want to the 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab creature to track the player while ducking, be sure to set 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab bAttackWhilePaused.
\par 
\par \tab \tab AlarmAnim:\tab If specified, the creature will play this animation upon reaching the 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab alarmpoint, as well as the AlarmSound if specified. 
\par 
\par \tab \tab bStrafeTo:\tab If true, and the creature can strafe, then the creature will strafe to this
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab AlarmPoint, facing the enemy player.  If the creature has a moving 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab attack, it will fire while strafing if it has a clear shot.
\par 
\par \tab \tab bAttackWhilePaused:\tab If true, the creature will shoot at the player while paused 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab (unless he has a ShootTarget).  If the player is not visible,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab the creature will fire at where he last saw the player. 
\par 
\par \tab \tab bNoFail:\tab \tab \tab If true, the creature will never give up trying to get to this
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Alarmpoint (just as it never gives up trying to get to other
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab alarmtag actors).  If false, and the creature gets knocked off
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab its path, it may give up if it can no longer easily get to the
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab alarmpoint.
\par 
\par \tab \tab bStopIfNoEnemy:\tab If true, and the enemy is not visible, creature will stop at this
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Alarmpoint until it sees the enemy again.  Otherwise, it will
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab continue progessing through the Alarm actions.
\par 
\par \tab \tab bKillMe:\tab \tab Any creatures that are triggered by this alarmpoint (their tag
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab = the alarmpoint\rquote s event) will hate and kill the triggering
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab creature, even if they wouldn\rquote t normally.
\par 
\par \tab \tab bDestroyAlarmTriggerer\tab When a creature reaches this alarmpoint (and it is the 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab creature\rquote s alarmtag destination), the creature is immediately
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab destroyed.
\par 
\par \tab \tab ShootTarget:\tab \tab If bAttackWhilePaused is true and ShootTarget has the tag of
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab some actor, the creature will fire at that actor rather than the \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab player.
\par 
\par \tab \tab AlarmSound:\tab \tab If an AlarmAnim is specified, the AlarmSound will be played
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab in conjunction with the AlarmAnim.
\par 
\par 
\par \tab \tab 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 7. Physics Notes}{
\par 
\par Creatures may be able to walk over any opening up to 3X their CollisionRadius.  If you want something to
\par definitely fall in, or not be able to cross without jumping, make it bigger than this.  Also, make sure that most hallways, and particularly intersections and corners are at least (4 x CollisionRadius + 10) of the la
rgest creature you want to navigate it (so that two creatures won\rquote 
t get hung up with each other.  Ideally, hallways should be at least 6x the CollisionRadius of the largest creature which may navigate it.  Also WarpZones should be at least 70 units deep ideally to allow the AI to handle them properly.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 8. Triggering creatures}{
\par 
\par Creatures that have not engaged an enemy can be triggered by a trigger whose event equals the creature\rquote s tag.  Creatures that are triggered will make whatever instigated the trigger 
their enemy.  You can use this to have creatures ignore the player until a certain event happens, such as crossing some threshold (using ATTITUDE_Ignore) - if bHateWhenTriggered is true,  the creature will change its attitude to hate the instigator.  Crea
tures will also trigger their event when they die.  You can use triggers in conjunction with bDelayedPatrol to cause a creature to start a scripted set of actions when triggered by the player (without noticing the player).  
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\fs28\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 9. \tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pndec\pnb1\pni0\pnfs28\pnstart9\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\ls3\adjustright {\b\fs28 Triggers
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs28 
\par }{Two new trigger types
 have been added.  TT_PawnProximity will allow any pawn, not just players to use the trigger.  TT_ClassProximity will only allow actors of the class ClassProximityType to use the trigger.  For example, you might make a certain switch only operable by a Na
l
i.  Also, triggers with type TT_Shoot now also have an optional DamageThreshold value.  This is the minimum damage required for triggering (instantaneous, not cumulative).  The optional attribute ReTriggerDelay specifies the minimum time before a trigger 
can be triggered again.
\par 
\par RepeatTriggerTime, if  set to a value greater than zero, causes the trigger to send out its event at an interval of RepeatTriggerTime seconds while the triggering actor remains within the trigger\rquote s radius.
\par 
\par }{\b EarthQuake:
\par }{\tab The EarthQuake keypoint can be triggered to shake the player\rquote s view for a specified duration, as \tab well as possibly tossing players around. It has no effect on other actors.  To simultaneously toss
\par \tab around other actors, use the ThrowStuff keypoint.  Earthquake attributes are:
\par 
\par \tab \tab magnitude:\tab Specifies the amount to roll the player\rquote s view, and the amount to throw
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab him if bThrowPlayer is true.  A magnitude of 2000 is a pretty strong 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab quake.\tab 
\par \tab \tab duration:\tab Time in seconds quake lasts.
\par \tab \tab radius:\tab \tab Radius for which players are affected.  A player who goes beyond the 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab radius will continue to have his view shaken for the duration of the
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab quake, but he will no longer get thrown around.
\par \tab \tab bThrowPlayer: \tab If true, players are thrown around during the quake.
\par 
\par }{\b ThrowStuff:
\par }{\tab The ThrowStuff keypoint can be used to cause actors whose tag matches the ThrowStuff
\par  \tab keypoint\rquote s event to be tossed using the vector specified in throwVect.   If Numthrows is larger
\par \tab than 1, the actors will be thrown again after the specified interval.  If bRandomize is true, 
\par \tab the throwVect will be randomly altered for every toss.  Having Numthrows > 1 and bRandomize
\par \tab can be useful for making stuff get tossed around during an earthquake.  Other potential uses for
\par \tab a ThrowStuff keypoint include launching a creature in a specified direction when triggered by the 
\par \tab player, or  turning the physics on of actors when a brush they are on tips and you want them to
\par \tab slide/fall off (in this case, use a ThrowVect of (0,0,0), and they will just be set to falling).
\par 
\par }{\b MakeNaliFriendly:
\par }{\tab When triggered, this keypoint makes all Nali in the level friendly.  This is useful for cases when the \tab player may have scared the nali previously, or to set up situations where the Nali will reward the \tab \tab 
player after he does something (such as killing a skaarj which was threatening the Nali).
\par 
\par }{\b Jumper:
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {When triggered, this trigger makes the triggering creature jump in the direction it is pointing.  It can be limited to trigger once only, or to only affect a certain class of creatures. }{
The Jumper trigger has a JumpZ variable which specifies how high the triggered creature should jump (giving you control over where it lands).}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b FearSpot:
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {This trigger causes creatures to avoid an area (not perfectly).If you use this, make sure there are also no paths going through the area you want them to avoid. }{The FearSpot keypoint
 has a bInitiallyActive attribute, which can be turned on and off by triggering it.
\par }{\b 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\fs28\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 10. \tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls4\pnrnot0\pndec\pnb1\pni0\pnfs28\pnstart10\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\ls4\adjustright {\b\fs28 Movers
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright {\b\fs28 
\par }{Two new booleans have been added to Movers.  bUseTriggered indicates that the 
brush is activated by a player doing a use (exec grab) on it.  BDamageTriggered indicates that damage to the brush will trigger it.  The optional attribute DamageThreshold specifies the minimum (instantaneous, not cumulative) damage needed to trigger a bD
amageTriggered brush.  }{\b\fs28 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {      Mover bump types are now supported, specifying which types of actors can trigger a mover by bumping it (for movers which are activated by bumping).  
\par 
\par By default, all the movers with the same tag will return or stop if one returns or stops because of encroachment.  To prevent all the movers with the same tag from acting this way, you can divide them into sub-groups using the ReturnGroup attribute.

\par }{\b\fs28 
\par 11. Special Creature Features
\par 
\par }{\b Mercenary:
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {The mercenary has several special sets of
 idle animations accessible through the following attributes - bButtonPusher, bTalker, and bSquatter.  If one of these attributes is set true, then these animations will play whenever the mercenary is stopped (waiting, or stopped on patrol, etc.).  Note t
hat for bTalker and bSquatter, the mercenary should be talking to teammates (so that the conversation will be synchronized).
\par 
\par bHasInvulnerableShield, bCanFireWhileInvulnerable, and invulnerableCharge are parameters which can be used to adjust the Mercenary\rquote s invulnerability capabilities.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b Skaarj:
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
The Skaarj has a special set of animations accessible through the attribute bButtonPusher, which  work in an analogous fashion to the mercenary bButtonPusher animations.  Also, bFakeDeath tells the skaarj to remain 
laying down until a little after he sees the player.  Note that skaarj using bFakeDeath should be placed slightly above the floor, so they don\rquote 
t adjust out of the floor on first seeing the player (thereby giving away the fact that they are not really a carcass).
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright { 
\par }{\b Krall:
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
The Krall has a special set of animations accessible through the attribute bDicePlayer.  Krall using these animations should be teamed with several other Krall and closely arranged in a circle.  The bSleeping attribute will make a Krall pla
y a sleeping animation and be very un-alert while waiting.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b Nali:
\par }{\b\fs28 \tab }{A Nali with orders \ldblquote Guarding\rdblquote  will play his praying animations.  A Nali with orders 
\par \tab \ldblquote Ambushing\rdblquote  will play his meditating animation.
\par 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {The bNeverbow attribute}{ should only be used with Nali who have a homebase (and only in well tested situations).  When enabled, the Nali will not stop and bow while retreating.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b 
\par Birds:}{\b\fs28 
\par \tab }{Although birds are flockpawns, they are added individually.  They have several different 
\par \tab selectable behaviours.  By default, they will fly around randomly in an area whose size is
\par \tab determined by their CircleRadius attribute.  Note that this area should be relatively free of
\par \tab obstructions, as birds are not smart.  If bCircle is set, they will soar around a circle with 
\par \tab radius CircleRadius.  If GoalTag is set, they will not move until triggered, and then quickly
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {fly to their GoalActor. Birds are now unlit by default.  If you want a bird to show off cool light/shadows, then set its bUnlit property to false.  Birds that you don\rquote 
t see no longer cost anything.  However, be sure not to use birds in big open areas where they can be seen from far away, as the full cost of rendering their mesh still exists, even if they are smaller than a pixel.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b Cow and Rabbit:}{\b\fs28 
\par \tab }{The bStayClose attribute (on by default) specifies whether the creature will wander around within
\par \tab its WanderRadius, rather than wandering randomly anywhere.
\par 
\par  }{\b Pupae}{\b\fs28 
\par \tab }{Pupae can be placed and rotated onto any wall or ceiling initially.  When they see the player, they
\par \tab Will drop off the wall/ceiling and go at the player. 
\par 
\par }{\b Brute}{\b\fs28 
\par \tab }{The bTurret attribute when true will make the Brute stay in place and just fire at the player.
\par 
\par }{\b Warlord}{\b\fs28 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {The Mutilating orders are for hub one.   The Warlord has a new attribute, bTeleportWhenHurt, which causes him to teleport away rather than dying.  
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b BiterFishSchool}{\b\fs28 
\par \tab }{The bNonAggressive attribute when true will make the fish ignore the player.
\par 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {BiterFishSchools have a fishcolor attribute.  0 to 6 makes all the fish in the school the same color, while a value larger than 6 gives them a random mix of colors.
\par }{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\fs28\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 12. \tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls6\pnrnot0\pndec\pnb1\pni0\pnfs28\pnstart12\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\ls6\adjustright {\b\fs28 Carcasses
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright {\b\fs28 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {You can add permanent 
creature and player carcasses (they are a subclass of decoration).  If a creature has multiple death animations, you can select the death pose by changing AnimSequence in the Display properties.
\par 
\par Carcass management note:  Carcasses are destroyed more quick
ly in zones that already have reached their limit of carcasses.  In less cluttered zones, carcasses will never disappear or change forms before your eyes.  The MaxCarcasses attribute of zones sets the limit for \ldblquote uncluttered\rdblquote 
 carcasses in a zone.  The default is now 3, which should be optimal for most situations.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright {\b\fs28 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs28 13. Zones
\par }{
\par The ZoneTag is used to tag a zone which is to be triggered by a ZoneTrigger.  WarpZones can be triggered to sequence through an array of destinations specified in their properties.  Othe
r zones will toggle bPainZone when triggered.  The ZoneFog and ZoneFlash properties in ZoneLight allow you to change the player\rquote s display color/fogging for a given zone.
\par 
\par The ZoneTerminalVelocity attribute changes the maximum falling speed of  players in the zone.
\par 
\par There are now also EntrySound, EntryActor, and ExitSound attributes for zones.  Zones with bWaterZone set will play these as pawns enter/leave the zone.  These are modified for special water zones, such as lava or slime.
\par 
\par W}{hen a player enters a TeleporterZone, he is teleported by the associated teleporter (specified by the TeleporterZone\rquote s TeleporterTag).
\par }{
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs28 14. Screen Flashes
\par }{
\par Ther
e are two components used to create screen flashes.  ViewFog is used to color the screen.  It is a vector whose components are RGB values between 0 and 1.  As ViewFog increases the brightness of the screen, you need to use ViewFlash to keep it from over-b
rightening. 
\par 
\par ViewFlash is a vector whose components should be between 0 and \endash 1 (for example (-0.5, -0.5, -0.5).  It reduces the brightness of the screen.  Typically, all the components will have the same value, which should have a magnitude about the same 
as the average magnitude of the ViewFog components to keep the screen from changing brightness.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 15. AI Difficulty Differences
\par }{
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 16. Scripted Execs and Cheats
\par }{
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs24 Execs 
\par }{(used in normal gameplay - can be bound to a key in you Autoexec.mac file):
\par 
\par FeignDeath \tab \tab pretend to be dead 
\par Grab\tab \tab \tab Pick up a decoration or \ldblquote use\rdblquote  a mover
\par Say \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote \tab \tab Send message \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote  to all players
\par RestartLevel
\par ThrowWeapon\tab \tab Toss out your current weapon.
\par Kick \ldblquote name\rdblquote \tab \tab Kick player named \ldblquote name\rdblquote  off of server (only from bAdmin)
\par Pause
\par SwitchWeapon n\tab \tab Switch to weapon in weapon group n
\par Fire
\par AltFire
\par Jump
\par Suicide
\par AlwaysMouseLook b\tab If b=1, always mouse look (and turn off SnapToLevel and 
\par \tab \tab \tab LookUpStairs.  If b=0 turn off AlwaysMouseLook.
\par SnapView b\tab \tab If b=1, snap view back to horizontal when MouseLook is
\par \tab \tab \tab unpressed (and turn off AlwaysMouseLook).  b=0 turns it
\par \tab \tab \tab off.
\par StairLook b\tab \tab If b=1, turn on automatic view orientation up and down
\par \tab \tab \tab stairs/slopes.
\par SetDodgeClickTime f\tab Modify the dodgeclicktime (time between button presses
\par \tab \tab \tab for dodge move.  F must be less than 0.3.  A negative value
\par \tab \tab \tab disables the dodge move.
\par SetName \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote \tab \tab Change your name to \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote .
\par SetTeam \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote \tab \tab Change your team to \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote .
\par PlayersOnly\tab \tab Only players allowed in the level.
\par ViewPlayer \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote \tab View the game from the point of view of the player named \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote .
\par \tab \tab \tab The view is only changed if you are allowed to see through this
\par \tab \tab \tab player\rquote s eyes (e.g. a teammate in team play or coop mode).
\par SetAutoAim f\tab \tab Adjust autoaim.  Setting it to 1.0 disables it.
\par SetHand xxx\tab \tab Set weapon hand to xxx= left, right, or center.
\par Taunt xxx\tab \tab Play the taunt animation xxx (wave, victory1, taunt1)
\par NeverSwitchOnPickup b    Default is 0.  If set to 1, then you never automatically switch to a picked \tab \tab \tab \tab up weapon.
\par PrevWeapon\tab \tab Switches to the next lower priority weapon.
\par NextWeapon\tab \tab Switches to the next higher priority weapon.
\par InvertMouse b\tab \tab Default is 0.  If set to 1, then your mouselook is inverted.
\par ShowScores\tab \tab Toggles the display of the scoreboard in multiplayer games.
\par ShowMenu\tab \tab Cause the menu to be displayed.
\par SetSensitivity f\tab \tab Changes the mouse sensitivity scaling to f (a float).
\par SetBob f\tab \tab \tab Changes the bob value to f (default is 0.016).
\par AddBots n\tab \tab Adds n bots to the level (game must be a DeathMatchGame or 
\par \tab \tab \tab Subclass).
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 Cheats}{
\par ViewClass xxx\tab \tab View the game from the point of view of a member of class \ldblquote xxx\rdblquote .\tab \tab \tab \tab Successive executions of this function will iterate through the class.\tab \tab \tab \tab For example, ViewClass class\rquote 
SkaarjWarrior\rquote  will show you the
\par \tab \tab \tab game from the point of view of a Skaarj in the level, if there is one.
\par KillAll xxx\tab \tab Kills all actors of class xxx (including subclasses)
\par Amphibious\tab \tab Makes you amphibious (no limit to underwater time).  
\par Fly
\par Walk
\par Ghost
\par ListInv\tab \tab \tab Print a list of your inventory items to the log.
\par AllAmmo\tab \tab Gives you 999 ammo for all the weapons you have.
\par Invisible b\tab \tab b=1 makes you invisible. b=0 makes you visible.
\par TempStatus b\tab \tab b=1 turns the temporary status bar ( at the top of your screen) on.
\par \tab \tab \tab b= 0 turns it off.
\par God\tab \tab \tab Toggles god mode.
\par BehindView b
\par SloMo f\tab \tab \tab Changes the rate of time in the game.  1.0 is normal speed.  2.0 is 
\par \tab \tab \tab twice normal speed. 0.2 is one fifth normal speed\'85
\par Players\tab \tab \tab Prints a list of players and their current score.
\par JumpZ\tab \tab \tab Changes your jumping height (260 is default).
\par KillPawns\tab \tab Removes all pawns from the game.
\par CheatAdd class\rquote xxx\rquote \tab Adds an actor of class \lquote xxx\rquote  right in front of you.  This can be anything
\par \tab \tab \tab (a weapon, ammo, a creature, etc.), as long as an actor of that class
\par \tab \tab \tab exists or is referenced in your level.
\par RememberSpot\tab \tab Remember your current location (see ShowPath below).
\par ShowPath\tab \tab Show recommended path back to location remembered by 
\par \tab \tab \tab RememberSpot.  Displays a beacon.  When you touch that beacon, it
\par \tab \tab \tab shows the next one.
\par 
\par }{SetDesiredFOV f}{\tab \tab S}{ets your field of view to f (a value between 1 and 179).
\par }{
\par 
\par }}