Level Name:

	DOM-Eruption

Date Completed:

	10/9/00

Designed by:

	MonsterTrosity

Email Address:

	MonsterTrosity@home.com

Recommended gameplay:
 
	6 to 20 players.
 
Special Features:
 
	Rotating star-field (Sky)
	active erupting volcano
	two hidden areas
	one booby trap
 
Playing Notes:
 
    Watch out!   The volcano is active, and highly unstable.  Do not fall in
or shoot a rocket into it or it will erupt, launching your carcass into the
air!  Avoid being crushed by the unstable mantle.  If you find it, you may
be able to use it to your advantage while being chased by your opponents.
Find the two hidden areas, and you will be rewarded greatly.
 
    There are a total of four Control Points to handle.  All of them are
reachable in a short amount of time if you stage your pattern well.  There
are many shortcuts through the level that will allow you to get around to
them quickly.
 
    Player beware!  Those of you whom are playing on a system with lower
than a Pentium II 333 and a decent graphical accelerator will be very
choppy.  This level was designed on such a system, and thus optimized for
performance based on this speed or higher.
 
    No special files are required for play.  You can either launch the level
by double clicking it or by placing it in the \UnrealTournament\Maps folder.
 
Editor Comments:
 
    Definitely my most sophisticated level ever.  This map turned out to be
much larger than expected, but surprisingly playable with a low player
count.  I have yet to get a third party opinion of this since I know the
level well, it is easy for me to guess where my opponents are.
    
    100% of DOM-Eruption was created from UnrealED.  Originally containing
up to 30,000 or so polly's, I intersected about 95% of the map into one
brush to drop the polygons count to a mere 5,000.  This greatly improved
downloading times, and playability to act as a form of compression.  A word
to the developer whom is interested in this concept:  Do not intersect your
level until you have 100% of the level exactly as you want it.  It will be
damn near impossible to alter your level once you have intersected it.
Another option, is to save often, changing the name of your level as you go.
This will allow you to go back a step, or copy a brush from earlier.
 
    The rotating star-field was one of my original ideas that I borrowed
from one of my older CTF maps known as REAL_Mines.  It helps to give you
more of an illusion that you are on a planet, and not a flat surface.
Matter of fact, one of the star-field simulations used in one of the
original maps of UT is similar to an older level I created called
REAL_Warp9.  Not to smash it, but mine looks a bit more realistic.
 
    The erupting volcano came to me in a concept when I was pondering an
island map.  I was thinking about how most islands are formed volcanically,
and it gave me the idea to use it as a part of the level.
